---
layout: post
title:  "The Big Disappointment"
date:   2019-09-19 20:43:50 -0500
categories: 
---
	
Since 2014, hip hop guru Chance The Rapper has blessed our ears with his distinct flow, discography, and chart toppers, and up to now he has failed to disappoint when it comes to his music. That was at least until July came along, and changed my outlook on Chance for the worse.

On July 26, Chance The Rapper released his first studio album “The Big Day” which had hype circulating around it all year up until the point of release. Before this, the Chicago rapper had only released several mixtapes titled 10 Day, AcidRap and Coloring Book, his most recent mixtape which dropped in 2016.

In the past, Chance has gathered big name hip hop artists such as Childish Gambino, Kanye West, Action Bronson and Young Thug to feature on his albums. The album The Big Day featured the likes of Lil Durk, Nicki Minaj, DaBaby and MadeinTYO. The first time I heard the features I was shocked to hear how some of the artists did not fit with Chance’s flow.

The album had a horrendous mix of pop, electronic and hip hop and failed to have a consistent beat with his songs. The tape featured pop stars like Shawn Mendes and John Legend but they failed to deliver and just didn’t fit in with a rap album like Chance's. It was pretty evident that Chance added these pop artists for radio play and revenue rather than delivering rap songs with his signature flow. 

Chance The Rapper has always been known for his distinct rapping style that includes a mix of his raspy voice, creative bars and his signature line “And We Back!” Chance only said his line ONCE in the whole album and tried to autotune his voice to a point where you almost don’t even realize it’s him singing. Not only that but his lines were some of the corniest lines Chance has ever created.	

Chance failed to incorporate creative lines in his songs off this album and instead tried to add a more pop and electronic feel which I thought ruined the style of the album. With The Big Day, Chance had one of the worst albums of the summer which included other flops from big name hip hop artists Trippie Redd, who released his album !, and Logic, who released Confessions of a Dangerous Mind. 

The only bright spot off of this album was probably the diamond studded disc on the cover of the album that tried to give the album positive vibes headed in but we all know how that ended.

What was supposed to be the album of the summer for Chance ended up being maybe one of the biggest flops, album wise, in 2019 so far. I don’t  know if anything can be worse than this project to be released this year but we will just have to wait and see.

“And We Back.”
