---
layout: post
title:  "Boys tennis looks back on successful 2019 campaign"
date:   2019-05-17 20:43:50 -0500
categories: 
---
As the sun gets brighter, the heat sets in and yet another school year comes to a close here at Lebo. The boys tennis team tries to finish out a successful 2019 campaign and look back on yet another season in the books. Along with wrapping up the 2019 season, the team is already looking forward to future opportunities and getting ready to work it out in the offseason.

Senior Owen Descalzi and juniors Myles Hamel and Colin Brzezinski go over how the past season went and also what the future could hold for Mt. Lebanon tennis. For starters, tennis is not as confusing as it seems. It’s a pretty simple sport to watch for people who do not usually follow tennis.

[ Picture? ]
Caption- Senior Owen Descalzi fires a nasty serve in the boy’s tennis quarterfinal game against Shady Side Academy. Descalzi was a huge part of the tennis team’s success this past season.	

“There are three singles matches and two doubles matches in a high school match,” Hamel said. “You play best of three sets and a set is the first team to six points, but if it is six all, then you will play a tiebreak which is first to seven points and win by two to determine the set.”

This year was like a redemption tour for Mt. Lebanon boys tennis. Getting the chance to play Cathedral Prep and Upper St. Clair at home and getting the opportunity to face Peters Township and Bethel Park, two other Mt. Lebanon rivals, set up a perfect 2019 schedule. Descalzi prefered one of those matches over the others. 

“My favorite match was probably beating Cathedral Prep,” Descalzi said. “They crushed us the year before, and this year we beat them on our home court.”

Getting the chance to get revenge on Cathedral Prep was only one of many highlights from this year’s tennis team. In fact, Brzezinski believes that taking down archrival Upper St. Clair was the cherry on top of a great regular season.

“Against USC, one of the freshman Jack Wilke came back after losing the first set and was down 5-0 the second set,” Brzezinski said. “He came back and won the second set 7-5 and won the third. I’ve never seen a greater comeback and it’s always nice beating USC.”

As shown in the Upper St. Clair match, freshmen this season have had quite the impact on the team and their push into the WPIAL playoffs. Despite them falling to Shady Side Academy in the second round, the team has a lot to look forward to in the coming years and believes that they had a successful season. 

“It was a good season,” Hamel said. “We made it to the quarterfinals in WPIALs.”

The whole season is a longer process than a lot of people probably expect. Tennis really doesn’t have an offseason, especially with the bubbles being available for the players to practice in the winter. It’s actually a sport that requires a lot of time and practice.

“During season, we’re playing for a couple hours a day, and offseason we have to play a couple times a week year round,” Brzezinski said.

In regards to the freshmen on the team, this past season, each and every one of them helped contribute to each match in some way or another. For example, Jack Wilke beating Upper St. Clair and other varsity freshmen like Phillip Gorun and Jack’s brother Luke Wilke contributing to the team’s success this past season.

“They’ve really helped out the team on the court [since] nearly half of our starting lineup is freshman,” Brzezinski said. “Phillip Gorun has really good potential and the Wilke twins are annoying but good tennis players.”


Descalzi also believes that the current freshmen on the team could have something special brewing for the future, and Mt. Lebanon students and fans should have something to look out for in the coming years. Also, with Descalzi departing for Ohio State next year, he wishes good luck to the team moving forward.

“The freshmen have had a huge impact on the team this year,” Descalzi said. “There are six on the varsity team and 14 total, eight on JV. A super talented class overall, three of them being in the starting lineup. When they are seniors, I think they have a good shot at winning the WPIAL as a team.”

With a great future ahead of them, the Lebo tennis team can only go up from their WPIAL Quarterfinals appearance. They have a lot of younger talent that will make a huge impact in the coming years. Despite the wide array of freshmen, sophomores and juniors, Descalzi being the only senior, the team bonds often and has formed a great team chemistry. Mt. Lebanon tennis is where it’s at, and the team is always looking for more players who are experienced and ready to join the race for bringing a championship back to Lebo.

“The tennis team at the high school is a great group of kids, and everyone loves Coach Garofoli,” Descalzi said. “Any kids that want to join the team, I’m sure they will have a great time.”


