---
layout: post
title:  "Joker Lives Up to the Hype - Phoenix is Not Joking Around"
date:   2019-10-17 20:43:50 -0500
categories: 
---
2008 marked a historic year for the Batman superhero franchise following the release of one of the best superhero films of all time, “The Dark Knight.” The record breaking film made over a billion dollars in the box office and scored a 96% on Rotten Tomatoes. Eleven years later, Warner Bros. latest film Joker is already smashing box office records, and it’s only going to continue to a point where it will be the highest grossing and overall best film of 2019.

“Joker” in North America made $93.5 million opening weekend and $234 million worldwide, while scoring a 90% audience rating on Rotten Tomatoes and a 9/10 on IMDb. The hype around this movie is real, crushing the October box office record held by Sony Pictures “Venom” which made 80 million opening weekend.

Actor Joaquin Phoenix may be the most menacing man to play the role of Joker and it’s pretty obvious why. Phoenix fits the part perfectly, growing up raising his brother and living in homeless communities as a young child. He and the Joker both had rough childhoods, putting Phoenix in a near perfect role after losing tons of weight for the movie. 

Although actor Heath Ledger in “The Dark Knight” also suited the role fairly well, Phoenix’s back story put him on top of Ledger for the role of the forgotten clown. Ledger showed off a more villainous Joker while Phoenix’s take on the comic classic is a real clown look with long neon green hair. In my opinion, Ledger depicts the villainous role for Joker better than Phoenix, but overall, Phoenix displays the creepy sinister clown along with the signature laugh, making him better for this film, but overall Phoenix’s performance is up there with Ledger’s.

Most movies coming out in 2019 or that have already been in theaters have been rather disappointing. Other than “Avengers: Endgame,” “It: Chapter Two” and “Once Upon a Time in Hollywood,” 2019 has not been the year of critically acclaimed films until now. A mix between a horror, action and drama film, “Joker” captures the complete backstory of one of the most devious villains in the comic universe in a two hour two minute cinematic masterpiece. 

A dark movie with deep meanings scattered throughout the film, director Todd Phillips delivers an amazing breakdown of the life of Joker before the villainy and destruction of Gotham City. Phillips also displays the difference between this movie from past appearances by the Joker. Phillips delivery of Joker is straight out of a horror film which aids the film in that it has so many different genres woven through.

This movie seems to have everything comic crazies and superhero fans enjoy the most out of a film like this. Joaquin Phoenix should be at least a nominee for actor of the year at the Academy Awards, but deserves the award so far this movie season. “Joker”, come January, will be up there with some of the best movies headed into award season and probably one of the best films of 2019. Joke’s on you if you don’t see this movie while it is still in theaters.
